welcome to the heavy spoilers show I'm
your host definition and this is a
dimension as vast as space and as
timeless as infinity it is the middle
ground between not seeing the show and
seeing it
it's the channel where we explain it so
you don't have to do this is the
Twilight Zone the show has just dropped
its second episode in the Jordan Peele
reboot titled nightmare at 30,000 feet
and the episode has a lot to unpack from
it throughout this video I'll be
breaking down everything that you need
to know about nightmare and its ending
this is full spoilers ahead so if you
haven't seen it yet then I highly
recommend that you turn off now with
that out the way thanks for clicking the
video and let's dive into my ending
explain breakdown of nightmare at 30,000
feet nightmare at 30,000 feet is of
course a riff on the infamous nightmare
at 20,000 feet that episode starring
William Shatner followed a man who after
witnessing a gremlin on the wing of the
plane almost brought the entire object
to the ground however no one believed
him due to the gremlin hiding and at the
end of the episode
Shatner's character was deemed insane
and has scored off his fears were
confirmed though and the audience were
given confirmation that the events in it
happened when they saw the rip fuselage
of the plane it's arguably the show's
most infamous episode and has been
parodied in The Simpsons
Ace Ventura and more the episode has
even already been remade for the 1983
movie and it's clear that this has a
pretty big following
however it's never really been one that
I enjoyed all that much perhaps due to
the fact that when I saw it I'd already
seen the parodies countless times and
this just seemed laughable due to
Shatner's betrayal or panic like most
fans though I was naturally intrigued
upon news of a 2019 remake of the
episode but the new one is quite
dissimilar in many ways this is probably
a wise choice given the parodies and
it's arguably the smartest way to go
with it similar to the original episode
we follow a passenger who attempts to
save what he believes is a doomed flight
however there is no monster this time if
the man is facing off against something
bigger fate itself the episode is packed
with Easter eggs such as an image of
Samir at the height of his comedic fame
there's a toy that resembles a gremlin
for
the original captain Donna is a nod to
Richard Donna and overall it feels more
a part of the twilight zone universe so
what about the plot itself
well Justin Sanderson our protagonist is
a PTSD suffering journalist has taken a
job in tel-aviv
justin is used to war reporting having
previously visited Yemen and though his
wife attempts to dissuade him against it
he still goes like most travelers of the
modern age
Justin puts on a podcast and sits back
to listen to it's intriguing story which
centers around the mystery of northern
cold stop by 101 five this podcast
recounts the disappearance of a plane
but there's just one big problem justin
is in the twilight zone and therefore
he's on northern cold stuff like 101
five Justin becomes increasingly
paranoid and as the podcast goes on it
gives more and more confirmation that
he's on the doomed flight Justin does
whatever he can throughout the episode
to attempt to divert the plane from
destiny he stops a sports fan from
streaming a game and confronts a man
that he believes as a member of the
Russian mob justin is desperate to fight
his fate no matter how unhinged he looks
all becomes it's clear that he has poor
mental health due to his encounters with
the wars he's faced and it becomes
increasingly more evident that this may
just be a form of psychosis there's also
Joe a mysterious man who reassures
Justin he is correct in his suspicions
and second watch this mysterious man
seems to be quite strange and if the
mental health diagnosis that I've given
is correct then Joe could merely be a
hallucination that Justin sees to
justify his actions whilst I've seen
some articles confirm that Joe is real
because on the way to the cockpit people
interact with him this could be a
manifestation of him taking over
Justin's body and Justin is resigned to
watch it play out because he's a
passenger Joe is never seen with the
survivors so this holds a lot of weight
for me anyway Justin's worst fears are
confirmed
and eventually the plane does disappear
through Joe though it becomes clear that
in trying to avoid his fate Justin
actually caused it to happen he wakes up
washed up on a beach and after noticing
survivors he's initially relieved
however he soon know this is how the
other passengers are looking at him and
after seeing his podcast play
he rushes to it to discover that all of
the passengers were discovered except
for him the passengers turn on him and
ultimately this ending can be seen as a
comment on how society deals with mental
health they may appear to initially
tolerate it but eventually they will be
put into a situation that causes them to
judge it's a small ending that feels
more in line with today's standings and
whereas in the original Shatner's
character was vindicated justin seems to
be a victim of his own paranoia and the
air that eventually causes him to fall
by the rulings of society overall this
is a message of faith versus free well
and it argues that the two could perhaps
have more in common with each other than
we would like to believe Justin had the
freewill to simply turn off the podcast
but the choices he made ultimately led
him down the path that he was trying to
escape from I much prefer this episode
to the premiere and hopefully the rest
of the season is like this obviously I'd
love to hear your thoughts on the
episode and if you preferred it to the
first one comment below and let me know
and if you enjoy this video then make
sure you like it and check out my
breakdown of the comedian from this
series which will be linked at the end
this is the channel for people who are
never missing television so if that's
the kind of thing you like you need to
subscribe to definition thanks again for
taking the time to watch this you've
been the best and I'll see you next time
take care peace
[Music]